# Jekyll

Jekyll is minimalist a bit of software that can take a bunch of files and convert them to a static website.
The generated website can then be hosted on a web server somewhere.

It lets people easily write text files in markdown format, and then transform them into working .html files.

It is currently the static site generator behind [[GitHub pages]], allowing software developers to create documentation websites with ease.

----

There is a good description of how it works here: [how jekyll works](http://jekyllbootstrap.com/lessons/jekyll-introduction.html)

> ## Why Should I Care?
> 
> Jekyll is very minimalistic and very efficient. The most important thing to realize about Jekyll is that it creates a static representation of your website requiring only a static web-server. Traditional dynamic blogs like Wordpress require a database and server-side code. Heavily trafficked dynamic blogs must employ a caching layer that ultimately performs the same job Jekyll sets out to do; serve static content.
> 
> Therefore if you like to keep things simple and you prefer the command-line over an admin panel UI then give Jekyll a try.
> 
> *Developers like Jekyll because we can write content like we write code:*
> 
> - Ability to write content in markdown or textile in your favorite text-editor.
> - Ability to write and preview your content via localhost.
> - No internet connection required.
> - Ability to publish via git.
> - Ability to host your blog on a static web-server.
> - Ability to host freely on GitHub Pages.
> - No database required.
> 
> ----
> 
> excerpt from [ *how jekyll works*](https://jekyllbootstrap.com/lessons/jekyll-introduction.html#toc_4))

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[GitHub pages]: <../../websites/GitHub Pages.md> "GitHub pages"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"